Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu says the Israeli military has
set a date for sending Ground Forces
into Rafa but is not specified when this
will happen the US opposes the plan
saying that it would have a devastating
impact on civilians and Israel's own
security netanyahu's statement comes
days after Israel's Army withdrew troops
from K Yunis some gazin have already
started to return to the rubble in
gaza's second largest city over a
million are still Sheltering in Rafa
most of gaza's population has been
displaced by the Israeli offensive which
was launched after the October 7th
Terror attacks by
Hamas now Lieutenant Colonel Peter
Lerner is a spokesman for Israel's
military and he told us why Israel
considers Rafa to be so crucial to
defeat Hamas we do know that in the Gaza
Strip there are still at least uh six
operational battalions of Hamas four of
those indeed in the Rua area two in more
Central Gaza
um operating at a lower capacity but in
the south in Rafa there are still four
operational battalions if we are going
to be successful at dismantling Hamas
we're going to have to go to Rafa I
think if we've learned anything from our
rescue operation two months ago in Rafa
uh that hostages are being held there
and that there is an extensive force
that can conduct organized fighting
against us so we need to operate in
order to get rid of Hamas and bring back
the hostages
let's take this to our correspondent
Tanya Kramer in Jerusalem Tanya Israel
seems determined to go into Rafa despite
many calls opposing this plan including
from their staunchest allies why would
Israel take the risk
nonetheless well I mean I think Israel
doesn't see it as a risk it does see it
as a necessity we just heard it from the
spokesperson of the Israeli military and
we've heard it also from prime minister
Benjamin Netanyahu time and time again
that the military needs to go into Rafa
to destroy those four battalions they're
also still uh searching for the
leadership and there's also a lot of
pressure on Netanyahu um this
announcement that there's a date for
Rafa although it wasn't specified when
and how this will happen uh also uh was
uh came after a lot of criticism by his
far-right cabinet minister saying the
policy of maximum pressure on Hamas uh
need to be uh maintained and of course
this all happens in the fines of uh you
know International opposition
International uh pressure of not going
ahead especially also from Israel's key
Ally the United States they have said
that Israel needs to present a clear
plan uh how they will evacuate or how
they will bring uh those uh estimated 1
million people that are Sheltering uh in
rafar uh to some uh uh sort of safety
their talks going on between the US and
Israeli officials to explain how they're
going to do it I mean the true cost is
for the residents and for those
displaced people in uh in Rafa and if
you use the word Sheltering it's also
not really describing the situation
there are air strikes and Strikes on the
city as well as the war is going on and
we've been talking to people there in
the past weeks they've been saying us we
don't know where to go we don't know
what to do um and they're very very
concerned about
these uh announcements that are coming
uh every other day that an operation is
imminent yeah and that is part of why
the US for example is calling for an
immediate ceasefire and Hamas and Israel
both send delegations to Cairo for truce
talks on Sunday Hamas which is of course
considered a terrorist organization by
many states says it is now studying the
terms of a new proposed true steel what
more can you tell
us well uh this came After High Level
talks uh by uh the mediators and also um
with the US uh over the weekend now we
understand that Hamas has said that uh
it this proposal that was submitted by
uh Egypt and Qatar to Hamas doesn't meet
any of uh their demands but they will
continue studying that and there is the
expectation that they will give another
answer some time soon now of course we
have heard this many times before and
depending on which source uh you know
you're hearing sometimes it said there's
progress sometimes I said the gaps are
very wide it's mainly about the Hamas
demands they're saying there needs to be
a full ceasefire there needs to be a
full withdrawal and uh people needs to
be able to need to be able to return to
the north so we're waiting to see uh
what will actually happen here in the
coming hours that was DW correspondent
Tanya Kramer in Jerusalem is always
great to get your insights thank you so
much
well amid hopes for a ceasefire in time
for the end of Ramadan families in Gaza
have been doing their best to prepare
for Eid aler the celebrations marking
the end of the fasting month but with
most of the population displaced by the
fighting and much of gaza's
infrastructure destroyed this year's
festivities will be difficult to
organize these pastries are
traditionally baked and eaten by
Palestinians to celebrate Eid the end of
the holy month of
Ramadan but this year Aya al- masharawi
is preparing them in a makeshift
oven next to the tent she shares with
her sisters and their
children they fled their homes to this
camp in Rafa in southern
Gaza e used to be joyful the atmosphere
was beautiful we used to make these
pastries with with loved ones and
distribute them but nowadays there's no
joy need because we've been displaced
from our
homes our family members have been
killed or are still in Gaza
City so e doesn't bring as much joy
anymore crowds Gather in this market in
the city of De albala in central Gaza to
buy supplies for the religious holiday
here too the annual festivities are
overshadowed by the ongoing
conflict and food shortages have led to
price
spikes because of the war here in Gaza
there's no Spirit or Joy the prices are
too high no one is able to enjoy
[Music]
Eid UN trucks arrived in De albala for
the first time in few
months Distributing critical supplies
among several schools and
shelters but this renewed trickle of Aid
does not go far enough to help the
Palestinians who are Sheltering here as
they face malnutrition and
disease